Create syslog-forwarding.adoc (#283)
PaloAltoNetworks/prisma-cloud-docs: cns/saas/admin_guide/reference/syslog-forwarding.adoc

> = Syslog Forwarding

Reviewer: Remove this heading, it is redundant.
Start the document with the level two heading `== Enable Syslog Forwarding`
```suggestion

```

> Alexandre Cezar <acezar@paloaltonetworks.com> 1.0, April 18, 2022:

Reviewer: I would strongly advice against adding names and emails to content.
```suggestion

```

> == Enabling Syslog forwarding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enable Syslog Forwarding
```

> Syslog forwarding is enabled under the Enforcer Profile. Optionally, you can configure the header format used in syslog messages and enable client authentication for syslog over TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable `syslog` forwarding under *Enforcer Profile*.
Optionally, you can configure the header format used in the `syslog` messages and enable client authentication for `syslog` over TLS.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you enable syslog forwarding without defining a syslog server endpoint, enforcers write events to the host subsystem. This can be useful if you already have a syslog collector in your host, but it only works for Linux based systems and on environments where your enforcers have permissions to write to the platform's disk. Many managed platforms don't allow your enforcers to write to the platform's disk which will cause an error.

```

> There are specific log fields that needs to be configured, to note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the following log fields:
```

> * Syslog Endpoint —IP address or fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the syslog server and the port number on which to send syslog messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Syslog Endpoint* IP address or fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the syslog server and the port number where the syslog messages are sent.
```

> * Facility—Select a syslog standard value (default value is 1 or LOG_USER) to calculate the priority (PRI) field in your syslog server implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Facility:* Select a syslog standard value. The default value is 1 or `LOG_USER` to calculate the priority (PRI) field in your syslog server implementation.
```

> * Format—Select the syslog message format to use: AUTO, BSD or IETF. Traditionally, BSD format is over UDP and IETF format is over TCP or SSL/TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Format:* Select the syslog format used for messages: `AUTO`, `BSD` or `IETF`. Traditionally, BSD format is used over UDP and IETF format is used over TCP or SSL/TLS connections.
```

> === Configuring Syslog forwarding for udp and tcp endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure Syslog Forwarding for UDP Connections
```

> In the example below, we're adding a Syslog Collector, listening on udp connections, over port 514 (default syslog port)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example adds a *Syslog Collector* listening on UDP connections, over port `514`, which is the default syslog port.
```

> Enable the Syslog forwarding feature and provide the endpoint address, in the format <protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>

Reviewer: I added a link to the pertinent section in the doc.
```suggestion
After <<enable-syslog-forwarding,enabling syslog forwarding>>, you can provide the endpoint address in the following format: `<protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>`
```

image::syslog-1.png[width=600,align="center"]

> === Configuring syslog with TCP as transport protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure Syslog Forwarding for TCP Connections
```

> In the example below, we're adding a Syslog Collector, listening on tcp connections, over port 50514.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example adds a *Syslog Collector* listening on TCP connections over port `50514`.
```

> Enable the Syslog forwarding feature and provide the endpoint address, in the format <protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After <<enable-syslog-forwarding,enabling syslog forwarding>>, you can provide the endpoint address in the following format: `<protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>`
```

image::syslog-2.png[width=600,align="center"]

> === Configuring Syslog forwarding for TLS endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure Syslog Forwarding for TLS Connections
```

> In the example below, we're adding a Syslog Collector, listening on tls connections, over port 50140

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example adds a *Syslog Collector* listening on TLS connections over port `50140`.
```

> Enable the Syslog forwarding feature and provide the endpoint address, in the format <protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After <<enable-syslog-forwarding,enabling syslog forwarding>>, you can provide the endpoint address in the following format: `<protocol://<fqdn or ip>:<port>`
```

> Besides providing the endpoint address, you also need to upload the client and server certificates, which are done in two steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to providing the endpoint details, TLS connections require that you upload the client and server certificates. Follow these steps to upload the certificates to the Prisma Cloud Console.
```

> * Step 1 - Navigate to Manage -> Credentials > Certificate Management: Here we need to add the Public/Private key certificates of the Host where the Enforcer is installed (syslog tls client).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Manage -> Credentials > Certificate Management*
.  Add the Public and Private key certificates of the host where you installed the Enforcer. This host is the syslog TLS client.
```

> 

Reviewer: Needed to continue the ordered list.
```suggestion
+
```

image::syslog-3.png[width=600,align="center"]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[NOTE]

> This step is required as Prisma Cloud needs to securely store the certificate that it is going to be used by the Enforcers to establish the tls connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====
This step enables Prisma Cloud to store the certificate that the Enforcers use securely and establish the TLS connection.
====
```

> * Step 2 - Navigate to Agent > Enforcer Profile: Add the syslog client and server public certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Agent > Enforcer Profile*.

. Add the syslog client and server public certificates using the `.pem` file format.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

image::syslog-4.png[width=600,align="center"]

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Upload the certificates in the pem format

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> === Displaying the syslog configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Display the Syslog Configuration
```

> Expanding the Enforcer Profile gives you visibility on what syslog configuration is defined and mapped against the Enforcers on a given namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the syslog configuration defined and mapped against the enforcer in a namespace, expand the *Enforcer Profile*.
```

> [TIP]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> As different Enforcers can use different Profiles, you can use this flexibility to define different syslog endpoints, according to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different enforcers can use different profiles, and you can use this flexibility to define different syslog endpoints according to your needs.
```

> === Enabling Syslog using apoctl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Enable Syslog Forwarding with apoctl
```

> In some situations, you may want to configure syslog through your automation pipeline and apoctl can help you to make this simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure syslog easily through your automation pipeline using apoctl.
```

> Some examples are provided below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following commands are useful examples.
```

> * UDP syslog server endpoint configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure a UDP syslog server endpoint:
```

> `apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 -k syslogEnabled=true -k syslogEndpoint="udp://10.128.0.25:50514" -k syslogFormat=BSD`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source]
----
apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 -k syslogEnabled=true -k syslogEndpoint="udp://10.128.0.25:50514" -k syslogFormat=BSD
----
```

> * TCP syslog server endpoint configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure a TCP syslog server endpoint:
```

> `apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 -k syslogEnabled=true -k syslogEndpoint="tcp://10.128.0.25:50514" -k syslogFormat=IETF`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source]
----
apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 -k syslogEnabled=true -k syslogEndpoint="tcp://10.128.0.25:50514" -k syslogFormat=IETF
----
```

> * TLS syslog server endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure a TLS syslog server endpoint:
```

> First we create a service certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a service certificate.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source]
----
```

> `apoctl api update servicecertificate 61d61b1e3186970001065ec8 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apoctl api update servicecertificate 61d61b1e3186970001065ec8 \
```

--api https://api.staging.network.prismacloud.io \
--namespace /796475962542846976/vivek-test/aporeto \
--data '{
 "name": "syslog-servicecert",
 "public": "<public certificate content>",
 "private": "<private certificate content>"

> }'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}'
----
```

> * Next, we configure the Enforcer Profile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the enforcer profile:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source]
----
```

> `apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apoctl api update enforcerprofile 61dfcc367e57760001d6c609 \
```

--api https://api.staging.network.prismacloud.io \
--namespace /796475962542846976/vivek-test/aporeto \
--data '{
 "syslogEndpointTLSClientCertificate": "<certificate content>",
 "syslogEndpointTLSServerCA": "<certificate content>",
 "syslogEndpoint": "tls://10.128.0.25:50514",
 "syslogFacility": null,
 "syslogFormat": "IETF"

> }'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}'
----
```

> [WARNING]

Reviewer: Removed the warning and moved the text to the beginning of the document.
This informs readers of this behavior before they perform any configuration to enable them to take it into account.
```suggestion

```

> If you enable Syslog Forwarding and do not define a syslog server endpoint, Enforcers will write events to the Host subsystem (this may be interesting when you already have a syslog collector in your host), but this only works for Linux based systems and on environments where the Enforcer has permissions to write to the platform disk (many K8s managed platforms don't allow this)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
